Instructions for submitting a paper for the 'Machine behaviour in the age of large language models: social, cognitive and evolutionary perspectives' issue of Interface Focus

CAUTION: External email. Ensure this message is from a trusted source before clicking links/attachments.

Dear Dr Han,

Thank you for agreeing to submit a manuscript to the 'Machine behaviour in the age of large language models: social, cognitive and evolutionary perspectives' theme issue of Interface Focus guest edited by The Anh Han, Iyad Rahwan, Zhao Song and Matjaz Perc.

Please submit your paper by 30 September 2026 and do let me know as early as possible if you will not be able to submit on time. All papers in an issue are published at the same time so the issue publication schedule will be dictated by the slowest paper; prompt submission is therefore appreciated.

Your manuscript ID will be RSFS-2026-0050.

You can contribute a research paper, a review paper or perspective, as agreed with the Guest Editor of the issue. More information about article types can be found here. Research papers containing new work must not be under consideration elsewhere. The journal does not enforce a strict length limit, however papers that are overly long will need to be reduced. As a guide, please aim for no more than approximately 8000 words, 250 words of tables and 3 medium figures. 

Please note that your paper will be required to fit the brief given when commissioned, and meet the high quality standards of the journal. Therefore, whilst we endeavour to allow opportunities to revise a manuscript throughout the publication process, the Guest Editors and the journal’s Editorial Board retain the right to reject papers. A prompt submission of your contribution on schedule will allow the maximum time possible for revisions to be made.

Diversity
The Royal Society is committed to increasing diversity in science and supporting scientists from all backgrounds, geographic regions and career stages. We believe that the nature of an Interface Focus issue provides an opportunity for setting a positive example. We ask lead authors to be proactive in promoting diversity, and we encourage you to provide opportunities for marginalised individuals and early career researchers where possible. We strongly encourage the involvement of local researchers and communities in the countries where research has taken place.

To submit the manuscript, please login to the Manuscript Central site at https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsfs. Your case-sensitive USER ID is t.han@tees.ac.uk.

If you do not have a password already, please use the password help function on the login page and ScholarOne support will send you a password. If you do not receive this password within 24 hours please do contact the office at focus@royalsociety.org and we will chase this request up for you.

If a co-author is uploading on your behalf please let the Editorial Office (focus@royalsociety.org) know so that we can enable them to submit via the system. The peer review process will be conducted by the Guest Editor(s) via this system.

Click 'Author Centre'.

Click on the 'Invited manuscripts' link in the left hand panel.

Please answer all the questions that appear and be sure to upload the following at the file upload stage. A combined PDF is acceptable for the initial submission for review, but individual files will eventually be required.

1) Text file of the manuscript (Word document, tex or similar) including an abstract/summary (up to 200 words), references, acknowledgements and funding, tables (including captions) and figure captions. 

2) Individual high resolution electronic files for each figure in the article (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format).

3) Any supplementary files to be hosted alongside your paper. This may include data sets, additional tables, figures or text, movies or audio files etc. We will not edit or typeset these files so please provide them in the form in which they should appear online. Please proofread and format them carefully.

4) Please ensure that the submitting author has associated their ORCID with their account.

5) During the submission process you will be asked to provide statements on data accessibility, ethics, use of AI and competing interests. 


OPEN DATA

Please be aware that we have an open data policy. We expect data, code and other materials to be made available for the editors and reviewers at first submission. You can upload files with your submission as supplementary material, or provide a link to where they can be accessed. On publication, these will need to be made publicly available in a recognised repository with a DOI. For initial submission, GitHub, Google docs etc is acceptable but these will need to be moved to a permanent archive later (general ones include Dryad, Zenodo, OSF etc.).

Many repositories will be able to provide a private ‘for review’ link that you can use for the review phase. Your manuscript ID can be found at the top of this email. You will be asked to provide a ‘data accessibility statement’ during submission to tell editors and reviewers how they can access the data.
 
Some guidance on best-practice for preparing and archiving your data can be found here and here.

OPEN ACCESS

During 2026, all articles published in this journal will be Open Access; articles are made freely available to all, immediately upon publication. Articles are covered by a Creative Commons license (CC-BY) allowing redistribution and re-use, and we deposit them in PubMed Central on the author's behalf. For full details, please visit our Open Access page.

Authors will not be required to pay an Open Access fee. For researchers from an institution signed up to one of our Read & Publish agreements, all open access fees and invoices are automatically covered by your library. For all other articles, fees are covered under either Subscribe to Open or our Royal Society Open Access Equity scheme.

PREPRINTS AND ARCHIVING

You are allowed to post preprints and accepted author manuscripts on a personal website, preprint server or repository. Note that the work remains under media embargo until the date of publication. Please visit the website for more information.


Please contact focus@royalsociety.org with any queries about how to use ScholarOne.

Yours sincerely,

Helen Eaton  
Interface Focus Editorial Office
